# Advanced Semantic Segmentation using Deep Learning
This repo contains the code and the [memory](https://github.com/albertsalles4/TFG-SemanticSegmentation/blob/main/memoria.pdf) of my Bachelor's Thesis of Mathematics and Computer Science.

# Abstract
Intravascular  Ultrasound  (IVUS)  is  an  intra-operative  imaging  modality  thatfacilitates observing the vessel wall structure of the human coronary arteries. Seg-mentation of the arterial wall from IVUS images is crucial for the analysis of thewall’s characteristics and for 3D reconstructed models of the artery.  The aim ofthis project is to learn, study, develop and evaluate a model capable of performingsemantic segmentation on medical images using a small IVUS dataset. The datasetused contains 435 pullbacks from 10 different patients acquired by 20 MHz probes.Our  proposed  model  uses  the  InceptionResNet  architecture  pretrained  with  theImageNet dataset as the encoder. The model is then connected like a U-Net with adecoder which is trained using the images. We have explored different approachesin data augmentation and the best results were given by rotations up to 90 degrees,vertical & horizontal flips and zooming.  Among the results, we obtained an aver-age of Dice similarity coefficient, or Dice Index, of 0.75 for the media and 0.92 forthe lumen, with pretty low variance.  However, the Hausdorff distance (HD) fromresults show that some misclassified sections appear in average 0.51 and 0.67 mmaway from the ground truth class, for the lumen and media respectively.  Finally,the Jaccard Measure for the lumen is quite high:  0.85;  whereas for the media is0.60, which is pretty low.  The results found in this project present a good start onhow to implement a solution for the problem explained.
